# xGFabric-ORBIT
Combining xGFabric and ORBIT


# WIP -- THIS IS AN OLD VERSION... 

Featuring ORBIT-AI: Smart and enhanced orchestrator, selector, and scheduler for
AI Digital Twin Cyber Physical Applications.

It is inference-first.

# MOTIVATION:

I'm trying to solve two problems:

Given input data and the description for output data, what are the best models that can do this?

```
"Best":
         |                    x
 Acc.    |       x        x
         |_____x_______x___________
	     Earliest Deadline 
```

**How can I incorporate streaming data from sensors into ROSE?**

Approach: Two parallel components: Active Learning & Inference
```
   Standard Active Learning  |
           Sim               |  <--- streaming event
			  |              |  
          Train              |  --New--> Inference Executable
            AL               |


   Standard AL | 
      Sim      |  <--- streaming event
     Train     |           | fast picker
       AL      |          / \          
             --->       inf  inf
                      model  model
```







# Architectural Layers:
```

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
| "Experiment Flow"                                                           |
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
| Experiments + with optimizers                                               |
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
| Active Learning Runtime + Model Selector                                    |
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
| Workflow Dependency Tracking --> Workloads                                  |
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           |
                                      (workloads)
                                           |
                                           V
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
|  ORBIT-Front: Global Resource Selector (may move to Active Learning Runtime)                                     |
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
|  ORBIT-Back: Global Central Scheduler                                       | 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                    
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
-----------------------------------------
|  Task Runtime - Local                 |
-----------------------------------------
| Execution Backend | Execution Backend |             (repeated.....)
-----------------------------------------
| Raw Resources     |  Raw Resources    |
-----------------------------------------

```

## Role of each layer:

- **Layer 5.1**: User Application: Experiment Flow
- **Layer 5**: User Application: Individual experiments with their own optimizers
- **Layer 4**: Active Learning Runtime + Model Selector + Resource Selector
- **Layer 3**: Workflow Dependency Tracking
- **Layer 2.5**: Global Central Scheduler
- **Layer 2**: Task Runtime
- **Layer 1**: Execution Backend
- **Layer 0**: Raw Resources

## Inputs and outputs of each layer. 

### Layer 5.1 - User Application: Experiment Flow

User defines a graph of experiments:

```
-------      -------
| exp |  --> | exp | -->  etc...
-------      -------
```

The arrow represents actual data
taken in or generated by the experiment. It is *data flow* not *control flow*.

### Layer 5 - User Application: Experiments + Optimizers

Defines what an experiment is. 

An experiment is a module that is to become an expert in predicting one thing
and one thing only. The experiment is defined by the required input data streams
and the output data streams it will produce. It is a declarative summary of the
experiment. These streams are typed.

For instance: `Experiment A measures the temperature from A and predicts the
temperature at B`. In this, experiment A's sole responsibility is to predict the
temperature at B given A. 

The optimizer then oversees the experiment and is responsible for developing models 
and evaluating models for accuracy / deadline. 

The actual methodology of the experiment (what the experiment will do) will be
via models / simulations that accomplish the experiment's description. Then,
each experiment is also given an associated "optimizer" that seeks to make the
experiment produce the most accurate results. However, to do this, the optimizer
will have access to a "ground truth" connection which could be another
experiment or an axiom. 

A single experiment:

|-----------------------------------------|
| experiment A (definition):              |
|   - input:                              |
|       - data stream 1                   |
|       - (can have multiple)             |
|   - output:                             |
|       - data stream 2                   |
|                                         |
|-----------------------------------------|
| Associated optimizer for experiment A:  |
|   - Bring your own models /             | 
|         active learning scripts         |
|   - Experiment Ground:                  |
|          (Another experiment or axiom)  |
|          The ground has to be the same  |
|          data type as exper. out data   |
|-----------------------------------------|


Responsibility of the optimizer:
- Train more models to maximize accuracy and minimize deadline wait. 
- The optimizer is free to implement their own eval / accuracy metric
- The runtime gives it deadline estimates.
- Launches training jobs through the runtime.

Also, the user defines "sensor tasks" that are persisting and trigger events.

Layer 5 is still high-level declarative dataflow! It is not the actual execution
order or workflow just yet....

### Layer 4

Upper Layer:
- Private runtime tasks. 
- Runtime to support experiment optimizer callbacks. 

```
Signal-Initiated Workflows: 
(Sensor) ---> Task A ----> Task B ---> Task C
              (of the
              experiment)

General Workflows:
Task D
Task E
Task F --> Task G
```

Layer 4 also contains its own private experiments:
- Experiment to compare relative deadline to endpoint-specific deadline. 


Lower Level 4: Assign an endpoint to each task using the private experiment data. 

### Layer 3

Private Task:
- Private workflow adjustment

Given workflows, this layer fires off runnable tasks as workloads. Tracks task
dependencies. Also, supports event signaling. 

Future: Tasks themselves also shall be able to launch / configure the running workflow.

### Layer 2.5 - Scheduler
- Given (task, endpoint/pool) pairs, track resource usage of each endpoint. Submit to
  endpoint when ready
- Resolve resource pools to the specific endpoint the task should use
- Route endpoint sensor events to above.
- Provides endpoint exist sensor. (Sensor = event source) 


---- On an endpoint -----
### Layer 2: Task Runtime
- Submits tasks to the correct execution backend.
- Route sensor events to above
- Dedicated Profiler Runtime (Acts as sensor = event source)

### Layer 1:
- Sensor execution backend: handles sensor tasks
- Execution Backend: Handles compute tasks

### Layer 0:
- Raw Nodes / Sensor Physical Hardware


# Implementation / Comparison with existing RADICAL tools:
Starting from bottom up:

## Layer 1 and 0

Raw Execution Backend:
- ConcurrentExecutionBackend
- DragonExecutionBackend
- SensorExecutionBackend <<< **NEW**
- - A sensor: long living task that sends events. Spawned or killed.
- ProfilerExecutionBackend <<< **NEW**
- - give it a task, it will run and profile CPU / memory / runtime.

## Layer 2

Task Runtime
- Rhapsody. Intra-endpoint scheduling / allocating. 
- Routes task to backend. 

Sensor Runtime <<< **NEW**
- SensorExecutionBackend
- - Sensors can submit events / notifications to above.
- ProfilerExecutionBackend
- - give it a task, it will submit an event with profiling data

## Layer 2.1 Endpoint-Hosted Plugins for Task Runtime RPC Host

Endpoint-Hosted: RPC Host for the different task Runtimes
- Rhapsody plugin: controls the rhapsody runtime
- Sensor plugin: controls the sensor runtime <<< **NEW**

## Layer 2.5 - ORBIT Scheduler Plugin <<< **NEW, extension of TaskDispatcher Plugin**
Broker-hosted scheduler plugin
- Tracks what endpoints are available.
- Tracks resource utilization on endpoints.
- Receives tasks labeled with endpoints
- Routes sensor events to upper layer
- Provides an endpoint sensor. 


## Layer 3 - Workflow dependency tracker / resolver
- A workflow is given to AsyncFlow.
- Events from lower layer trigger tasks according to given workflow.
- Workflow can be disjoint. 
- Defines a special task that adjusts the workflow that upper layers can direct to.
- - Upper layer gives it the communication API. 

**NEW:** <<< Currently being worked on by Aymen and Andrew
- Support for sensor updates (streaming tasks)
- - Adjusted to include sensor updates and special "sensor tasks" that respond to events. 

Future: AsyncFlow Persistent Mode ... Workflow persists automatically. 
- AsyncFlow synchronization
Future: Tasks can configure the workflow

> Note to self:
> - AsyncFlow has two conceptual sub-layers.
> - - Front-end: How to describe / parse the workflow.
> - - Backend: Dependency tracking. What tasks are ready to run now?
> 
> Front-end: Supports receiving many "chains". Task may include the special workflow task.
> Backend: A large table to store what tasks are waiting on what. 
>
> Note to self: See workflow_manager.py for edits.


## Layer 4 - Active Learning Experiment Runtime
- Builds a dynamic workflow for AsyncFlow to use. 

Extending ROSE to be an experiment based runtime:
- **NEW** Builds a workflow from experiments and experiment flow.
- **NEW** Create experiment interface and Active-Learning interface. 
- **NEW** Create sensor interface
- **NEW** Internal experiments for endpoint deadline prediction

```

SensorEvent / Output of Experiment ----------------------+
                                                         |
                                         RUNTIME: loads downstream experiment(s)
                                                         |
                                         RUNTIME: Calls experiment's select_model()
                                                         |
    RUNTIME: Fire on_input() in optimizer----------------+
                   |                     -------------------------------
            experiment                   | Experiment                  |
            optimizer                    |                             |
                                         |  Model A, Model B, Model C  |
                                         |-----------------------------|
                                         |        ROSE Learner         |
                                         |-----------------------------|
    RUNTIME: Fire on_output() in optimizer---------------+

```

Goal:
Have the best inference possible.


- What do you mean by "best":
- - Simulation Tasks
- - Training Tasks 






- - **NEW** Evaluator Task: scores a model
- - Active Learning: Scores a model and determines what data  


Each experiment needs a dynamic Inference Task

## Translate to ROSE:
- (Experiment) ROSE Learner:
- - Simulation Tasks
- - Training Tasks (active learning)
- - 




- **NEW** Inference Task (internal to the runtime)
- - Simulation Task (acts as ground truth)

Model subcomponent:
- Training Task
- Active Learner Task (optimizing for accuracy)
- Active Learner Task (optimizing for deadline)

- - Training Tasks (available models to pick)
- - Active Learner Task per Training Task
- - Active Learner Task per Training Task
- - **NEW** Inference Model Selector 
- - **NEW** Inference Task


- (Optimizer) ROSE Learner:
- - Active Learn: 
- - AlgorithmSelector


- - Active Learn:
- - - Picks models for the experiment to run
- - - Triggers more training.... 
- - Active Learn Function - Evaluates a model against ground truth.
    - Create new models 
- - Evaluation Function - Evaluate a model against ground truth
- - Stop Criterion




## Layer 4.5 -- User Application Layer
- User defines Experiments, Experiment Flow, DataTypes/Channels
- User defines sensor tasks